Hello again! In this video, we are going to talk about promises.
As we saw in the last video, a promise object is associated with a future object, and between them
they set up a shared state.
The promise object will set a value in the shared state and the future object can wait and then get
the value from the shared state.
So as a very rough analogy, the get() call by the future is analogous to the consumer calling the
producer thread and the set() operation by the promise is analogous to the producer thread returning
a value to the consumer thread.
But do not take this too seriously.
The future and promise are both template classes. The parameter is the type of the result that is being
passed from the promise to the future. The get underscore future member function will return
the associated future object. set underscore value will store the argument in the shared state.
And there is also a set underscore exception function which can be used with exceptions.
And we will look at that at the end of this video.
So here is how we would use the future and promise together. We have a producer which takes the promise
as argument. It generates a value and then it calls set_value and that will store the value of x in
the shared state.
We have this consumer function, which takes a future as argument. It calls get() on that future.
This will wait until the shared state is updated and then the function call will return and the value
from the shared state will be stored in x.
Then in the main function, we create the promise instance. We get the associated future. We start a
consumer thread with the future as argument and the producer thread with the promise as argument.
So let's see this code in action.
This is the same code. I have made the sleep a bit longer and added some print statements so we can see
what is happening.
The consumer thread calls get() and goes to sleep. The producer thread sets the value in the shared state.
The consumer thread wakes up, get() returns the new value, and then x is 42.
We also said that this can be used for handling exceptions.
The producer can store exceptions in the
shared state by calling the set_exception() member function on the promise. That will cause the exception
to be thrown in the consumer thread by the get() call.
So, again, using our poor analogy, the get() call by the future
is the consumer
thread calling the producer. The producer throws an exception and then the set_exception will in
effect rethrow the exception back to the consumer.
If we want to do this, we put a try block in the producer around code that might throw. So that's normal.
In the catch block,
this is slightly different.
Normally, you would use a copy of the exception or a reference to the exception in a catch block.
Instead, there's a function current underscore exception which will return the active exception,
and we can use the return value from that.
Then we call the set underscore score exception member function of the promise, and that will save the active
exception in the shared state.
Then in the consumer, the get() call is going to throw.
So we need to put a block around that and then we write a catch block, which will handle the exception.
So that is fairly normal.
You would have some code like this. The producer will have a try block and then the catch block. We call
current_exception() to get the active exception, then we pass that to set underscore exception.
And then in the consumer, the get() call will through, we put a try block around that and then we
write a catch block to handle that exception.
So this is the same code again, with some sleeps and print statements.
In the producer,
we are going to throw an exception.
Then we have a catch block.
This catch block is going to save the exception to the shared state.
In the consumer,
we have a try block around the get() call and then we have a catch block, which will handle the
exception.
So let's see how this works.
So we call get(), then the exception is thrown.
(Let's change that to five seconds, actually. Give us some more time to - give me some more time to talk
about it)
So the future calls get()
Then the producer is going to throw an exception. That exception is going to be stored in the shared
state, then the get() call will notice that exception.
It will throw the exception.
And then that gets caught in the handler.
OK, so that's it for this video.
I'll see you again next time, but until then, keep coding!